SUSTAINABLE SMART CITY ASSISTANT USING IBM GRANITE LLM
1. Introduction
Project Title: Sustainable Smart City Assistant Using IBM Granite LLM
Team Members:
M. VIGNESH
P. VIGNESH
R. SANTHOSH
B. SHAM STEPHEN RAJ

2. Project Overview
Purpose:
The Sustainable Smart City Assistant is an AI-powered application that helps promote sustainability and urban efficiency. It is designed to:
1. Provide eco-friendly lifestyle tips for individuals and communities.
2. Analyze and summarize policy documents relevant to smart cities and sustainability.
3. Act as a decision-support tool for building sustainable urban solutions.
The system integrates the IBM Granite LLM with a Gradio-based interface, offering an interactive, user-friendly platform.
Features:
1. Eco Tips Generator – Gives smart and sustainable living ideas.
2. Policy Analyzer – Summarizes uploaded PDFs or entered policy text.
3. Gradio Web App – Interactive tabs for easy navigation.
4. LLM-Powered Insights – Uses IBM Granite for natural language generation and summarization.


3. Architecture
Component Structure:
1. Eco Tips Generator Tab – Suggests sustainability tips based on user input.
2. Policy Analyzer Tab – Extracts and summarizes policy provisions.
3. Gradio Interface – Provides a clean, tab-based layout for interaction.
Flow:
User Input → IBM Granite LLM → AI-generated Output → Displayed via Gradio


4. Setup Instructions
Prerequisites:
Python 3.8+
pip package manager
Libraries: Transformers, Torch, Gradio, PyPDF2
Installation:
pip install transformers torch gradio PyPDF2
Run the Application:
python app.py
Then open:
http://localhost:7860


5. Folder Structure
SmartCity-Assistant/
│
├── app.py               # Main application code
├── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
├── README.md            # Quick overview
├── docs/
│   └── documentation.md # Full documentation
├── samples/
│   └── sample_policy.pdf
└── assets/
    └── architecture.png



6. Running the Application
1. Run app.py
2. Open Gradio link in browser
3. Choose between:
Eco Tips Generator
Policy Analyzer


7. Component Documentation
Eco Tips Generator: Produces personalized sustainability tips
Policy Analyzer: Summarizes and extracts key insights from policy documents.
Interface: Managed by Gradio tabs for smooth navigation.


8. State Management
Managed internally with Python functions.
Responses generated by IBM Granite LLM.



9. User Interface
Clean, tab-based layout.
Input text box / file upload → AI-generated output displayed instantly.



10. Styling
Default Gradio styling.
Can be extended with custom CSS for professional look.



11. Testing
Eco Tips: Checked for relevance and uniqueness.
Policy Summarization: Tested with multiple PDF inputs.
Interface: Verified smooth navigation between tabs.


12. Known Issues
Long policies may exceed token limit.
Speed depends on CPU/GPU availability.



13. Future Enhancements
1. Add multi-language support.
2. Enable graphical visualizations for policy summaries.
3. Provide download/export option for outputs.
